Subject: Phase 1 - Fiala: Property-based testing for hardware

Phase 1 Project Selection Status Report

Name:                 Jonas Fiala

College:              Trinity Hall

User Identifier:      jf613

Director of Studies:  Simon Moore & Hatice Gunes

Please complete 1, 2 and 3 below.

1. Please write 100 words on your current project ideas.

QuickCheck and SmallCheck are existing testing libraries that
encourage lightweight formal specification of software through
the reward of automatic testing and small counter-examples.
The idea of this project would be to apply a similar approach
to a HDL.
The HDL of choice would be Blarney (https://github.com/mn416/blarney)
for Haskell. This is similar to what BlueCheck does, but with the
novelty of verification in an open source context (Blarney) and
using bounded exhaustive testing rather than random testing.
The evaluation criteria would be defined as building a version of
SmallCheck that can test combinatorial logic circuits; finding bugs
in a suite of example buggy circuits and properties. I could then
measure the size of counter-examples found, measure time taken to
find counter examples and compare that to the time taken on a test
rig synthesized to an FPGA.
There are many further possibilities beyond the success criteria
for this project:
 - Build a SMT solver backend for Blarney and compare speeds
 - Extend to allow for random testing (like QuickCheck)
 - Extend to work with sequential logic (like BlueCheck)



2. Please list names of potential project supervisors.

Matthew Naylor



3. Is there any chance that your project will involve any
computing resources other than the Computing Service's MCS and
software that is already installed there, for example: your own
machine, machines in College, special peripherals, imported
software packages, special hardware, network access, substantial
extra disc space on the MCS.

If so indicate below what, and what it is needed for.

 - Haskell: require ghc version 8.6.1 for Blarney, but the default
    apt get ghc installs version 8.0.2 (this is what is on MCS) so must
    download manually.
 - CL account: can access required version of ghc if necessary, also to
    use Bluespec/BlueCheck if necessary.
 - Blarney: downloaded with git clone.
 - Machines in College - similar to MCS machines.
 - FPGA: for synthesizing testing rigs.
 - I also plan to use my own laptop and computer
    My laptop:  2.30 GHz CPU, 8 GB RAM, 118 GB Solid-state disk for OS
     and 447 GB Solid-state disk for data, Windows OS with Ubuntu VM
    My computer:  3.50 GHz CPU, 8 GB RAM, 256 GB Solid-state disk for OS
     and 1 TB Solid-state disk for data, Windows OS with Ubuntu VM
    My contingency plans against data loss are that everything
     will be held under git on Github with daily checkpoints to
     my Google Drive and also weekly to USB Flash Drive kept only for
     that purpose.
    My contingency plans against hardware/software failure are
     that I can easily transition my work to the MCS/CL machines